~/survival-models/doc/homework-4.txt

1. Open the WHAS500 data set in the software program of 
your choice.

a. Calculate a Cox regression model systolic blood 
pressure (sysbp) by itself and then adjusted for gender
and age. Is there evidence that systolic blood pressure
shows any trends with respect to gender or age?
Calculate the unadjusted survival curves for patients
with systolic blood pressures of 120, 140, and 160. Then
recalculate these survival curves with age set to the 
overall average age, and to a population that is 30%
female. Interpret your results.

b. Calculate cubic spline model for systolic blood
pressure with four degrees of freedom. Plot this
spline and offer an informal assessment as to whether
your spline function deviates markedly from a linear
relationship.

c. Calculate the Martingale residuals from your Cox
model with a linear term for systolic blood pressure
and for age and a term for gender. Plot these residuals
versus diastolic blood pressure. Offer an informal
assessment as to whether diastolic blood pressure adds
any information to a model already including systolic
blood pressure. Repeat this residual plot analysis using
myocardial infection type (mitype).